A Melody of Devotion: A Supplication Invoking the Crucial Vows of the Gurus, the Protectors of the Three Families Homage to Guru Mañjughoṣa! With undivided and heartfelt respect, I supplicate Guru Sthiracakra, In whom the bodies and wisdoms of all the victorious ones Pervading space are subsumed. Gaze upon me with your eyes of compassion, O Mañjuśrī! On this occasion, when I have acquired human birth, endowed with leisure and opportunities that are difficult to attain, Being diligently mindful of death and with urgency, I am not attached to all the glories of cyclic existence. Generate in me the intelligence of aspiration for liberation, O Mañjuśrī! From this moment and in all my successive lives, Connect me with the good fortune of being able to attend, Through the triple means of pleasing, To the lotus feet of the guru, the virtuous friend endowed with the qualities, O Mañjuśrī! Upholding the pure ethical discipline received from the guru, I arrive at great learning and reflection that goes beyond. Open the hundredfold doors of the samādhi Of calm abiding and higher insight through single-pointed cultivation, O Mañjuśrī! Grant me the unerring intelligence to tame unwholesome speech And the ability to care for others, Not being ignorant with regard to the common sciences And especially the ascertained secrets of the sūtras and the classes of tantras, O Mañjuśrī! Grant me the glory of speech so that I may have skill in teaching, attract the attention of millions of intelligent ones, Debate so as to destroy the mistaken pride of opponents, And, by means of writing learned compositions, clarify for a very long time The teachings of the victorious ones, O Mañjuśrī! Without being attached merely to conventional states, In a secluded place may I correctly cultivate the stages of the paths of the sūtras and tantras. Spontaneously generate in me the qualities Of experience and realization, O Mañjuśrī! If I fail to gain stability in this life, May I perceive the actual Mañjuśrī in the luminosity of death. Care for me without interruption In the dharmakāya citadel, O Mañjuśrī! If I become deluded once more and wander through the bardos, May the supreme Guru Sthiracakra With myriad manifestations guide me to the pure realms Where you bestow the comforts that have been prophesied, O Mañjuśrī! Even if I am reborn in cyclic existence due to karma and afflictions, May I attain a life of freedom and advantages, activate the potential of the supreme vehicle, And create the auspicious conditions to complete the remaining paths Without difficulty, O Mañjuśrī! In brief, in all the states-this life, the next life, and the bardos- Not looking for a refuge other than you, the protector, Directly grant the virtuous qualities That spontaneously accomplish the twofold benefit for oneself and others, O Mañjuśrī! *** Homage to Guru Lokeśvarā! The embodiment of the compassion of all the buddhas and their heirs Is given the name Guru Padmapāṇi. To you I undividedly and fervently pray. Consider me strongly with your compassion, O Avalokiteśvara! For all beings-myself and those similar to me, born in a degenerate end-time- Sinking in the ocean of suffering, There is no other refuge than you, the protector. Therefore, pull us from the mire of suffering, O Avalokiteśvara! Though this body is adorned with the eight leisures and ten opportunities, Many are the conditions that can destroy it and few are those that sustain it. Since there are so many obstacles to living in harmony with the Dharma, Ward off that which is in discord with it, O Avalokiteśvara! Grant me spiritual teachers and virtuous companions, Secluded places, and necessities conducive to practicing the Dharma, Devotion, compassion, knowledge, virtuous diligence, and so on, Which are favorable conditions and positive supports, O Avalokiteśvara! Having no confidence that I will not die tonight, I, a lazy one, still procrastinate in practice. Therefore, since the time for the holy Dharma will never come, Forcefully destroy my delusion, O Avalokiteśvara! Since I have not truly overcome my attachment to cyclic existence, My accrued virtue is lost due to pursuing mundane goals. In me, the lowly one who is bereft of the seeds of liberation, Generate intense renunciation, O Avalokiteśvara! Thinking only of freeing myself from cyclic existence, There is no means to attain the state of omniscience. For the sake of others, generate uncontrived love, Compassion, and bodhicitta within me, O Avalokiteśvara! As long as the cognition of self-grasping exists, The delusion of subject and object will not cease. Therefore, with the sword of discriminating knowledge Cut the net of conceptual elaborations, O Avalokiteśvara! In brief, may I master the practice of the Dharma in this life And be free from intense pain at the moment of death. As I ride twofold bodhicitta, may you lead me To greater and greater happiness, O Avalokiteśvara! Wherever I am born, may I encounter a spiritual teacher. Whomever I befriend, may I be free from the binding of attachment and aversion. However I practice, may it never stray From the supreme conduct of awakening, O Avalokiteśvara! Eventually, having succeeded in abandonment and self-realization, Being endowed with the activity of all-pervasive compassion for others, May you swiftly grant me the state where I am indistinguishable From both you as protector and your example, O Avalokiteśvara! *** Homage to Guru Vajrapāṇi! The embodiment of the three secrets of the guides and their heirs Is Guru Vajrapāṇi, at whose feet I supplicate With yearning and heartfelt longing. Come bless me directly, O Guhyādhipati! Beings born at the end of the degenerate age, Wherever they stay, are besieged by diseases, Warfare, famines, and Māra with his entourage. Protect them from all these with vajra armor, O Guhyādhipati! Especially regarding the three types of malevolent spirits-celestial, Terrestrial, and subterranean-who variously snatch away the life force Of beings and bring great suffering to the deteriorated world, Tame them with your power and strength, O Guhyādhipati! Furthermore, concerning the eight and sixteen fears And many other inharmonious obstacles That bind the body, speech, and mind of oneself and others like iron chains, Slice through them with your wisdom sword, O Guhyādhipati! When I am oppressed by the gloom of attachment, aversion, And the ignorance of improper thinking, Dispel the darkness of the afflictions With the brilliant sunrays of your compassion, O Guhyādhipati! Although momentarily the virtuous mind arises, Obstacles of demons and their diabolical designs Shift my frame of mind in perverted ways. Destroy hindrances on the path to enlightenment, O Guhyādhipati! After I have achieved mastery over renunciation, twofold bodhicitta, And the ocean-like conduct of the heirs of the victors, Quickly grant the state Of omniscient wisdom, O Guhyādhipati! Since you hold the entirety of the discourses of the Buddha, And especially the Vajrayāna, Spontaneously generate in me the auspicious conditions, without exception, Of the path of the great secret, O Guhyādhipati! After I have matured by means of empowerments, Perfectly pure pledges, and the final samādhi of the two stages, Generously grant me a banquet Of mundane and supermundane accomplishments, O Guhyādhipati! If cyclic existence is not transcended in this life, As long as rebirth continues, let me always be born with a superior body endowed with freedoms and advantages In a family line that is beautifully adorned With the seven qualities of the higher realms, O Guhyādhipati! After I have met a spiritual teacher immediately after being born And correctly cultivated the nectar of speech, Directly grant me the good fortune Of a state where my qualities are similar to yours, O Guhyādhipati! In this manner, through the power of invoking the vows and supplicating The bodhisattvas of the three families, the glorious gurus In whom the wisdom, love, and power of the victorious ones And their heirs of all the directions and times are gathered, May all aspirations be quickly accomplished as wished for, The holders of the Dharma live long, and the explanatory and practice teachings flourish. May beings be endowed with the wealth of a perfect eon And be granted the auspiciousness of every goodness in existence and cessation. This was written at the earlier behest of the treasurer Lodrö Zangpo, dignified with devotion, faith, and generosity; Jamyang Yönten, rich in intelligence; and the close attendant Tsultrim Gyatso, who asked for a supplication with the aspirations of the Stages of the Path. Later on, from a distance, something like this was fervently requested by the following pair: the lord of yogis and great practitioner Chöying Palden, whose lotus of cognition was fully opened through the nectar of the wisdom insight of the sovereign Vajra Queen, and the great practitioner Lodrö Palden. It was composed at the monastic house of Tartse at Pal Ewam Chöden, a source of numerous precious qualities, by the servant of gurus, the ignorant wanderer Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo. Through the merits of single-pointedly supplicating with a pure heart, may uncontrived precious bodhicitta arise in the mental continuum of anyone connected to it by means of recitation and so forth. Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ bhavatu. 
